[Title]{.underline}

Cardiovascular Point-of-Care Ultrasonography and Resident Learning

[Keywords]{.underline}

XXX

[Authors]{.underline}

Anish S. Shah, MD[^1], Mikhail Akbashev, MD[^2]

[Corresponding Author]{.underline}

Mikhail Akbashev, MD

Course Director and Clinical Lead - Point-of-Care Ultrasound

Assistant Professor

Division of General Medicine and Geriatrics

Emory University School of Medicine

makbash\@emory.edu

[Author Statement]{.underline}

These authors take responsibility for all aspects of the reliability and
freedom from bias of the data presented and their discussed
interpretation.

[Conflicts of Interest]{.underline}

There are no disclosures.

ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION METHODS
=============================

Study population
----------------

This study is a single-institutional prospective cohort study designed
to investigate the effect of POCUS curriculum on resident knowledge as
well as decision making. The curriculum is designed as a two sessions of
didactic and hands-on training during the PGY2 year. The cohorts were
divided by class years, from PGY1, PGY2, PGY3, and recent graduates of
the program. The population sampled was 225 residents (including recent
grads). The data was acquired from 06/2018 to 08/2019. The study
collected information on training level, prior experience, interest, and
included a quiz that tested knowledge of cardiovascular ultrasonography
and confidence in decision making. Participants all provided written
informed consent, and the study was classified as exempt by the
institutional review board.

Quiz design
-----------

The quiz was broken down into several sections that targeted specific
knowledge areas. The five domain were: 1) cardiovascular view
identification, 2) cardiovascular structure identification, 3)
cardiovascular function assessment (e.g. ejection fraction), 4) vascular
structure identification (e.g. IVC, aorta), 5) vascular function
assessment. The quiz was internally validated by experts in
ultrasonography from the fields of emergency medicine and critical care
medicine. Only questions that had unanimous agreement were selected. The
quiz was 20 questions in length and had two components. The first
component was a multiple choice assessment of an ultrasound image or
video clip. The second component asked for a subjective level of
confidence in the answer selected, given on a 3-level Likert scale
("Low", "Medium", "High").

Decision making
---------------

We chose to assess decision-making based on subjective confidence in
decision-making on ultrasonography, which is a relatively novel skillset
amongst internal medicine trainees. We compared answer choices to
perceived confidence, creating a 2 x 2 contingency table as seen in
**Table 1**, which had four possible combinations (*Knowledge Gap*,
*Underconfidence*, *Overconfidence*, and *Understanding*). These are
referred to as "confidence levels".

Statistical analysis of responses
---------------------------------

The questions were analyzed for accuracy, and descriptive statistics
were performed overall and stratified by the independent variables.
Student's t-test was performed to assess effect of curriculum on quiz
accuracy, along with one-way ANOVA to assess overall differences by
cohort training level. Overall confidence in quiz questions was assessed
with descriptive statistics, and stratified by both training level and
curriculum intervention. Ordinal logistic regression models, with the
primary outcome being the four-item confidence levels, and the exposure
being the curriculum and covariates. Repeat measures by participant were
adjusted by using a mixed effects model. The interaction between
curriculum and cohort was assessed in an additional model.

RESULTS
=======

Baseline characteristics
------------------------

There were a total of 89 participants in the study, including PGY1
(n=19), PGY2 (n=19), PGY3 (n=16), and recent graduates (n=38). There was
\>80% self-reported interest in POCUS, with over \>60% expressing
interest in a procedural career, and \<30% having prior experience in
POCUS. Further breakdown by cohort is seen in **Table 2**.

Knowledge and confidence assessment
-----------------------------------

The mean percent score (SD) on the questionnaire was 65.2 (12.4). By
cohort, the PGY1 class scored 56.1 (11.8), the PGY2 class scored 62.4
(11.5), the PGY3 class scored 73.0 (10.6), and the recent graduates
scored 67.8 (11.1). The questions were further broken down by type, as
seen in **Figure XXX**.

There was a difference in scores after completion of the curriculum (p =
0.002), as seen in **Figure XXX**.

Overall, participants reported being confident on 70.1% (4.6) questions.
When compared with their individual answer choices, 15.2% demonstrated a
*Knowledge Gap*, 14.8% demonstrated *Underconfidence*,16.2% demonstrated
*Overconfidence*, and 53.8% demonstrated *Understanding*. This is
further delineated in **Table 3**, including stratification by
curriculum. Of note, although there was an increase in *Understanding*
from 32.7% to 67.3 with the curriculum, there was also an increase in
*Overconfidence* from 39.3% to 60. 7%. The distrubtion of confidence by
question type is seen in **Figure XXX**.

Regression Analysis
-------------------

Curriculum was found to be significant in affecting congruence between
confidence and competence (p = 0). Completion of curriculum had an OR =
2.416 (95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.738, 3.359) of demonstrating
*Understanding* over other categories (e.g. *Overconfidence*). In an
additional model adjusted for cohort, there was a significant negative
interaction between curriculum and cohort year (p = 0.018).

DISCUSSION
==========

Major findings
--------------

We measured the impact of ultrasound curriculum on resident
interpretation of POCUS findings to assess resident decision-making. We
found that the ultrasound curriculum led to an increase in overall
accuracy in the quiz, but also led to an increase in confidence in
answer choices.

Limitations
-----------

The current study has limitations, the most important of which is the
cross-sectional study design. This limits our interpretation of the
directionality of the association. Of the population sampled, there is
likely also a self-selection bias for those that chose to participate.

TABLES
======

Table 1 {#table-1-1}
-------

              Confident       Not Confident
  ----------- --------------- ----------------
  Correct     Understanding   Underconfident
  Incorrect   Overconfident   Knowledge Gap

Table 2
-------

                       PGY1         PGY2         PGY3         GRAD
  -------------------- ------------ ------------ ------------ ------------
                       N=18         N=18         N=15         N=37
  Curriculum:                                                 
  No                   17 (94.4%)   17 (94.4%)   1 (6.67%)    3 (8.11%)
  Yes                  1 (5.56%)    1 (5.56%)    14 (93.3%)   34 (91.9%)
  Experience:                                                 
  No                   10 (55.6%)   10 (55.6%)   12 (80.0%)   29 (78.4%)
  Yes                  8 (44.4%)    8 (44.4%)    3 (20.0%)    8 (21.6%)
  Comfort (Dx):                                               
  High                 0 (0.00%)    0 (0.00%)    1 (6.67%)    6 (16.2%)
  Low                  15 (83.3%)   15 (83.3%)   4 (26.7%)    5 (13.5%)
  Medium               3 (16.7%)    3 (16.7%)    10 (66.7%)   26 (70.3%)
  Comfort (Tx):                                               
  High                 0 (0.00%)    2 (11.1%)    2 (13.3%)    17 (45.9%)
  Low                  17 (94.4%)   2 (11.1%)    3 (20.0%)    2 (5.41%)
  Medium               1 (5.56%)    14 (77.8%)   10 (66.7%)   18 (48.6%)
  Interest:                                                   
  High                 15 (83.3%)   15 (83.3%)   13 (86.7%)   26 (70.3%)
  Low                  1 (5.56%)    0 (0.00%)    0 (0.00%)    2 (5.41%)
  Medium               2 (11.1%)    3 (16.7%)    2 (13.3%)    9 (24.3%)
  Procedural Career:                                          
  No                   14 (77.8%)   11 (61.1%)   9 (60.0%)    26 (70.3%)
  Yes                  4 (22.2%)    7 (38.9%)    6 (40.0%)    11 (29.7%)

Table 3
-------

                Knowledge Gap   Overconfidence   Underconfident   Understanding
  ------------- --------------- ---------------- ---------------- ---------------
                N=239           N=262            N=237            N=877
  Cohort:                                                         
  PGY1          83 (34.7%)      37 (14.1%)       89 (37.6%)       91 (10.4%)
  PGY2          59 (24.7%)      65 (24.8%)       53 (22.4%)       183 (20.9%)
  PGY3          39 (16.3%)      30 (11.5%)       46 (19.4%)       184 (21.0%)
  GRAD          58 (24.3%)      130 (49.6%)      49 (20.7%)       419 (47.8%)
  Curriculum:                                                     
  No            152 (63.6%)     103 (39.3%)      158 (66.7%)      287 (32.7%)
  Yes           87 (36.4%)      159 (60.7%)      79 (33.3%)       590 (67.3%)

FIGURES
=======

[^1]: Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Emory University,
    Atlanta, Georgia

[^2]: Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Emory University,
    Atlanta, Georgia
